These instructions are adequate for migrating an Ontario initialized
OSCAR test database of moderate size for use as a BC OSCAR test
database.

First, create an empty OSCAR database.  We will call it 'oscar':

mysql -uroot -p -e "CREATE DATABASE oscar CHARACTER SET UTF8 COLLATE UTF8_GENERAL_CI;"

Load the Ontario database dump (assumed here to be named
'oscar_on.sql' but it can be different):

  mysql -uroot -p -f oscar < oscar_on.sql

If the Ontario database doesn't have all patches applied up to the
current date, then patches added since it was dumped should be applied
before trying to build and deploy the latest version of Oscar.

An easy way to do that is to get the latest Debian package from

https://sourceforge.net/projects/oscarmcmaster/files/Oscar%20Debian%2BUbuntu%20deb%20Package/

For instance, at the time of this writing (Aug 21, 2019):

wget https://sourceforge.net/projects/oscarmcmaster/files/Oscar%20Debian%2BUbuntu%20deb%20Package/oscar_emr19RC2-9%7E1000.deb

Extract the content of the Debian package into a subdirectory:

mkdir ./debpkg
cd debpkg
ar -vx ../oscar_emr19RC2-9~1000.deb
xz -d data.tar.xz
tar xpf data.tar
cd usr/share/oscar-emr

You will find two files, patch1.sql and patch.sql.

Apply patch1.sql after changing all instances of oscar_15 to oscar in
the script:

mysql -uroot -p -f oscar < patch1.sql

(Ignore warnings about indexes that already exist and duplicate entries.)

Then apply patch.sql

mysql -uroot -p -f oscar < patch.sql

That should apply all patches up to the date that the downloaded
Debian package was created.

At this point we should have an Ontario database consistent with the
most recent version of the OSCAR source code.

Not all OSCAR records are stored in the database, some are in the
filesystem.  The oscar properties file in /usr/share/tomcat8 may have
BASE_DOCUMENT_DIR defined.  Look for the last instance of that key in
the properties file.  For instance, the Debian package adds:
  BASE_DOCUMENT_DIR=/usr/share/oscar-emr/OscarDocument
Another common location is /var/lib/tomcat[678]/webapps/OscarDocument.

It is important to capture the contents of this folder and make it
available on the server where the migrated BC database will be
located.  Otherwise the database will refer to files that are not
present in the filesystem.  The folder can be placed wherever
convenient provided the location is configured in the oscar properties
file.

The new OSCAR installation will need a properties file.  An easy
approach would be to copy the Ontario oscar properties file and use it
on the BC server.  At the end of the properties file add

billregion=BC
lab.handler.PATHL7.enabled=true
lab.handler.EXCELLERIS.enabled=true
LAB_TYPE=PATHL7
EXCELLERIS_LAB_TYPE=PATHL7
PATHNET_LABS=yes
HL7TEXT_LABS=yes
SHOW_INDICATOR_DASHBOARD_NUMBERS=true

Next setup the BC specific tables using scripts in the database folder
of the OSCAR distribution.  Assuming the commands are issued from the
oscar directory,

mysql -uroot -p -f oscar < database/mysql/oscarinit_bc.sql 2>&1 | tee -a /tmp/db.log

Then load BC specific initialization data from oscardata_bc.sql.
Unfortunately, there are some primary key conflicts in the
billingservice table between BC and ON specific initalization data.
Replace the strings

INSERT INTO billingservice

with

REPLACE INTO billingservice

This change will allow the BC data to overwrite the ON data when there
is a primary key conflict in the billingservice table.  REPLACE does
the same as INSERT otherwise.

This can be done using

sed "s/INSERT INTO billingservice /REPLACE INTO billingservice /" database/mysql/oscardata_bc.sql  > /tmp/modified.sql

Then load 'modified.sql'

mysql -uroot -p -f oscar < /tmp/modified.sql 2>&1 | tee -a /tmp/db.log

At this point the ON test database should be converted to a BC test
database.  Additional test patients from
https://github.com/rrusk/devops/blob/master/Scripts/patient_insert.sql
can be added if desired.

Also, the BC indicator templates can be added.







